---
date: '2025-01-07'
---

### Accountants
Accountants look at explicit costs which include out-of-pocket costs. This is mostly: payments made from firms for using resources of others, money going in and out.

Accountants use source documents (receipts) to calculate how much was purchased.

$$\text{Accounting Profit} = \text{Total Revenue} - \text{Accounting Costs (Explicit Only)}$$

### Economists
Economists look at both explicit and implicit costs. Implicit costs are opportunity costs, which means considering the next best alternative the business could have invested its money into. For example: forgone wage, forgone rent, etc. 

$$\text{Economic Profit} = \text{Total Revenue} - \text{Economic Costs (Explicit + Implicit)}$$
And also:
$$\text{Economic Profit} < \text{Accounting Profit}$$
because economic profit always considers the implicit costs.

### Economic Costs

When economic profit is equal to 0, the firm is said to be at the **break-even point**, where it earns **normal profit**. Normal profit is good because it indicates that opportunity costs were considered. in AP Microeconomics, all costs mentioned are considered economic costs.

**Total Costs:**
- Total Fixed Cost (FC)
- Total Variable Cost (VC)
- Total Cost (TC)

**Per-Unit Costs:**
- Average Fixed Cost (AFC)
- Average Variable Costs (AVC)
- Average Total Cost (ATC)
- Marginal Cost (MC)

### Definitions
- **Fixed Cost:** Costs for fixed resources that do not change with the amount produced. For example: rent, insurance, etc
- **Average Fixed Cost:** The per-unit fixed cost
$$\text{Average Fixed Cost (AFC)} = \frac{\text{Fixed Cost}}{\text{Quantity}}$$
- **Variable Cost:** Costs for fixed variable that do change with the amount produced. For example: raw materials, labor, etc
- **Average Variable Cost:** The per-unit variable cost
$$\text{Average Variable Cost (AFC)} = \frac{\text{Variable Cost}}{\text{Quantity}}$$
- **Total Cost:** Sum of fixed and variable costs
- **Average Cost:** The per-unit cost
$$\text{Average Cost} = \frac{\text{Total Cost}}{\text{Quantity}}$$
- **Marginal Cost:** Additional costs for each additional input
$$\text{Marginal Cost} = \frac{\Delta\text{Total Cost}}{\Delta\text{Quantity}}$$