There are four types of market structures, on a left-to-right axis:
1. Pure Competition
2. Monopolistic Competition
3. Oligopoly
4. Pure Monopoly

Every product sold in a market can be considered one of the above. For example: the OS market system is mildly monopolistic, while the fast food market has monopolistic competition.

### Pure Competition
Many small firms have identical products (perfect substitutes). It is easy for firms to enter/exit the industry. The sellers have no need to advertise, and firms are essentially "price takers", which means the seller has no control over the price. For example: avocado farmers or sunglass huts.

**Law of One Price**
In an efficient market, all identical goods must have only one price. As a result, each firm is a price taker and firms have no control of the price.

**Why Price Takers?**
If a firm charges above the market price, no one will buy the product. Instead, they will go to other firms. There is no reason to lower prices because consumers will buy just as much at the market price. And since the price is the same at all quantities demanded, the demand curve for each firm is **perfectly elastic**.

### Maximizing Profit

**Short-Run Profit Maximization**
A business's goal is always to maximize profit. For short-run profit maximization, firms must always make the right output. Thus, firms should continue to produce until the additional revenue from each new output is equal to the additional cost. Essentially, the profit-maximizing rule is: $$\text{MR} = \text{MC}$$
This rule applies to all market structures, but only if the price is above the AVC. However, for perfectly competitive firms, the rule can be restated as $$\text{P} = \text{MC}$$
**Shut Down Rule**
Firms should continue to produce as long as the price is above the average variable cost. If the price falls below the AVC, the firm should minimize its loss by shutting down so it doesn't lose more money by producing. This is because: when the price is below the AVC, the firm is losing more money by producing instead of the money they would have to pay to shut down.

